[IMP] mail plugins: gmail plugin updates (#2773)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/productivity/mail_plugins/gmail.rst

Gmail Plugin
============

> The Gmail Plugin integrates your Odoo database with your Gmail inbox.

Author: Let's change this sentence to the below suggestion.
```suggestion
The *Gmail Plugin* integrates an Odoo database with a Gmail inbox, so users can keep track of all their work between Gmail and Odoo, without losing any information.
```

For Odoo Online users
=====================

For databases hosted on Odoo Online (or Odoo.sh), follow the steps below to configure the Gmail 
Plugin.

Install the Gmail Plugin
------------------------

First, make sure you are logged in to the Gmail account that you wish to connect with Odoo.

From your Gmail inbox, click the plus sign (“+”) on the right sidebar to get add-ons. Use the
search bar to search for “Odoo” and locate the :guilabel:`Odoo Inbox Addin`. Or, go directly to
the :guilabel:`Odoo Inbox Addin` page on `Google Workspace Marketplace

> <https://workspace.google.com/marketplace/app/odoo_inbox_addin/873497133275>`_.

Author: You just need to click the little arrow at the bottom right of your screen to show your side panel. I could include a picture of this in the doc to help people find it.

> <https://workspace.google.com/marketplace/app/odoo_inbox_addin/873497133275>`_.

Reviewer: Yes, include an image and also mention that if it isn't visible, just click the arrow icon in the bottom right corner.

> .. image:: gmail/google-workspace-marketplace.png

Reviewer 2: Unresolving. This image is still too big.

“Success!” message. Close the window. Your Gmail inbox and Odoo database are now connected.

For on-premise users
====================

For databases hosted on servers other than Odoo Online (or Odoo.sh), follow the steps below to
configure the Gmail Plugin.

.. note::
   As part of their security guidelines, Google Workspace Marketplace requires add-on creators to
   provide a list of URLs that can be used in actions (and redirections) launched by the add-on.
   This protects users by ensuring, for example, that no add-on redirects users toward a malicious
   website. (Read more on `Google Apps Script
   <https://developers.google.com/apps-script/manifest/allowlist-url>`_.)
   
   Since Odoo could only list the odoo.com domain, and not every on-premise customer’s
   unique server domain, on-premise customers cannot install the Gmail Plugin from Google Workspace
   Marketplace.

Install the Gmail Plugin
------------------------

First, access the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/odoo/mail-client-extensions>`_ for the
Odoo Mail Plugins. Click on the green :guilabel:`Code` button, then click :guilabel:`Download ZIP`
to download the Mail Plugin files onto your computer.

> .. image:: gmail/gh-download-zip.png

Reviewer 2: Unresolving. This file is still too big.

   :align: center
   :alt: Download ZIP file from the Odoo GitHub repository for Mail Plugins

Open the ZIP file on your computer. Then, go to :menuselection:`mail-client-extensions-master --> gmail --> src --> views`, and open the :guilabel:`login` TS file using any text editor software (e.g. Notepad (Windows), TextEdit (Mac), or Visual Studio Code).

Delete the following three lines of text from the :guilabel:`login` TS file:

.. code-block:: python

   if (!/^https:\/\/([^\/?]*\.)?odoo\.com(\/|$)/.test(validatedUrl)) {
        return notify("The URL must be a subdomain of odoo.com");
   }

This removes the odoo.com domain constraint from the Gmail Plugin program.

Next, in the ZIP file, go to :menuselection:`mail-client-extensions-master --> gmail`, and open the
file called :guilabel:`README`. Follow the instructions in the :guilabel:`README` file to push the
Gmail Plugin files as a Google Project.

.. note::
   Your computer must be able to run Linux commands in order to follow the instructions on the :guilabel:`README` file.

> Share the Google Project with the Gmail account that you wish to connect with Odoo. Then click
> :guilabel:`Publish` and :guilabel:`Deploy from manifest`. Lastly, click
> :guilabel:`Install the add-on` to install the Gmail Plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After that, share the Google Project with the Gmail account that the user wishes to connect with
Odoo. Then, click :guilabel:`Publish` and :guilabel:`Deploy from manifest`. Lastly, click
:guilabel:`Install the add-on` to install the Gmail Plugin.
```

> Configure your Odoo database
> ----------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the Odoo database
---------------------------
```

> The :guilabel:`Mail Plugin` feature must be enabled in your Odoo database in order to use the Gmail
> Plugin. Go to :menuselection:`Settings --> General Settings`. Under :guilabel:`Integrations`,
> activate :guilabel:`Mail Plugin`, and then click :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :guilabel:`Mail Plugin` feature must be enabled in the Odoo database in order to use the Gmail
Plugin. To enable the feature, go to :menuselection:`Settings --> General Settings`. Under
:guilabel:`Integrations`, activate :guilabel:`Mail Plugin`, and then click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

.. image:: gmail/mail-plugin-setting.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Mail Plugin feature in Settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: The Mail Plugin feature in the Settings.
```

> Configure your Gmail inbox
> --------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the Gmail inbox
-------------------------
```

> In your Gmail inbox, a purple Odoo icon will now appear on the right sidebar. Click on the Odoo
> icon to open up the Odoo plugin window. Then, click on any email in your inbox. Click
> :guilabel:`Authorize Access` in the plugin window to grant Odoo access to your Gmail inbox.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Gmail inbox, a purple Odoo icon is now visible on the right sidebar. Click on the Odoo icon
to open up the Odoo plugin window. Then, click on any email in the inbox. Next, click
:guilabel:`Authorize Access` in the plugin window to grant Odoo access to the Gmail inbox.
```

.. image:: gmail/authorize-access.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Authorize Access button in the right sidebar of the Odoo plugin panel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :alt: The Authorize Access button in the right sidebar of the Odoo plugin panel.
```

> Next, click :guilabel:`Login`. Enter the URL of the Odoo database that you wish to connect with
> your Gmail inbox, and log in to the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, click :guilabel:`Login`. Enter the URL of the Odoo database that the user wishes to connect to
the Gmail inbox, and log in to the database.
```

.. note::

>    Use the general URL for the database, not the URL of a specific page in the database. For example, use `https://stealthywood.odoo.com`, not `https://stealthywood.odoo.com/web#cids=1&action=menu`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Use the general URL for the database, not the URL of a specific page in the database. For example,
   use `https://mycompany.odoo.com`, not `https://mycompany.odoo.com/web#cids=1&action=menu`.
```

Also, make sure the first letter of the second line of the note lines up with the first letter of the first line!

> Then, click :guilabel:`Allow` to let Gmail access your Odoo database. The browser will then show a
> “Success!” message. Close the window. Your Gmail inbox and Odoo database are now connected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, click :guilabel:`Allow` to let Gmail access the Odoo database. The browser will then show a
:guilabel:`Success!` message. Close the window. The Gmail inbox and Odoo database are now connected.
```

Gmail Plugin
============

The *Gmail Plugin* integrates an Odoo database with a Gmail inbox, so users can keep track of all
their work between Gmail and Odoo, without losing any information.

Odoo Online users
=================

For databases hosted on Odoo Online (or Odoo.sh), follow the steps below to configure the Gmail 
Plugin.

Install the Gmail Plugin
------------------------

First, log in to the Gmail account that the user wishes to connect to Odoo.

> From the Gmail inbox, click the plus sign icon on the right side panel to get add-ons. If the side panel is not visible, click on the arrow icon at the bottom right corner of the inbox to reveal it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From the Gmail inbox, click the plus sign icon on the right side panel to get add-ons. If the side
panel is not visible, click on the arrow icon at the bottom right corner of the inbox to reveal it.
```

Remember to break the line before the 100th character!

panel is not visible, click on the arrow icon at the bottom right corner of the inbox to reveal it.

.. image:: gmail/gmail-side-panel.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Plus sign icon on the Gmail inbox side panel.

Then, use the search bar to search for `Odoo` and locate the :guilabel:`Odoo Inbox Addin`.

.. image:: gmail/google-workspace-marketplace.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Odoo Inbox Addin on Google Workspace Marketplace.

Or, go directly to the :guilabel:`Odoo Inbox Addin` page on the `Google Workspace Marketplace
<https://workspace.google.com/marketplace/app/odoo_inbox_addin/873497133275>`_.

> Once the plugin is located, click :guilabel:`Install`. Then click :guilabel:`Continue` to start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the plugin is located, click :guilabel:`Install`. Then, click :guilabel:`Continue` to start
```

the installation. 

Next, select which Gmail account the user wishes to connect to Odoo. Then click :guilabel:`Allow`
to let Odoo access the Google account. Google will then show a pop-up window confirming that the
installation was successful.

Configure the Odoo database
---------------------------

The :guilabel:`Mail Plugin` feature must be enabled in the Odoo database in order to use the Gmail

> Plugin. To enable the feature, go to :menuselection:`Settings --> General Settings`. Under
> :guilabel:`Integrations`, activate :guilabel:`Mail Plugin`, and then click :guilabel:`Save`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugin. To enable the feature, go to :menuselection:`Settings --> General Settings`. Under the
:guilabel:`Integrations` section, activate :guilabel:`Mail Plugin`, and then click :guilabel:`Save`.
```

.. image:: gmail/mail-plugin-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Mail Plugin feature in the Settings.

Configure the Gmail inbox
-------------------------

In the Gmail inbox, a purple Odoo icon is now visible on the right side panel. Click on the Odoo
icon to open up the Odoo plugin window. Then, click on any email in the inbox. Click
:guilabel:`Authorize Access` in the plugin window to grant Odoo access to the Gmail inbox.

.. image:: gmail/authorize-access.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The Authorize Access button in the right sidebar of the Odoo plugin panel.

Next, click :guilabel:`Login`. Then, enter the URL of the Odoo database that the user wishes to
connect to the Gmail inbox, and log in to the database.

.. note::
   Use the general URL for the database, not the URL of a specific page in the database. For

>    example, use `https://mycompany.odoo.com`, not
>    `https://mycompany.odoo.com/web#cids=1&action=menu`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   example, use `https://mycompany.odoo.com`, not `https://mycompany.odoo.com/web#cids=1&action=menu`.
```

This line break was a little early! You can fit all of this into one line and it should be under 100 characters.

Author: It's more than 100 characters, the URL gets cut off.

Finally, click :guilabel:`Allow` to let Gmail access the Odoo database. The browser will then show a
:guilabel:`Success!` message. After that, close the window. The Gmail inbox and Odoo database are
now connected.

Odoo On-Premise users
=====================

For databases hosted on servers other than Odoo Online (or Odoo.sh), follow the steps below to
configure the Gmail Plugin.

.. note::
   As part of their security guidelines, Google Workspace Marketplace requires add-on creators to
   provide a list of URLs that can be used in actions (and redirections) launched by the add-on.
   This protects users by ensuring, for example, that no add-on redirects users toward a malicious
   website. (Read more on the `Google Apps Script
   <https://developers.google.com/apps-script/manifest/allowlist-url>`_.)
   
   Since Odoo can only list the `odoo.com` domain and not every on-premise customer’s unique server
   domain, on-premise customers cannot install the Gmail Plugin from Google Workspace Marketplace.

Install the Gmail Plugin
------------------------

First, access the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/odoo/mail-client-extensions>`_ for the

> Odoo Mail Plugins. Next, click on the green :guilabel:`Code` button. Then click
> :guilabel:`Download ZIP` to download the Mail Plugin files onto the computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Odoo Mail Plugins. Next, click on the green :guilabel:`Code` button. Then, click :guilabel:`Download
ZIP` to download the Mail Plugin files onto the computer.
```

Author: It's over 100 characters if I cut the line off after "Download", and the `guilabel` doesn't work if I cut it off after `:guilabel:`, so I cut it off after "click".

.. image:: gmail/gh-download-zip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Download the ZIP file from the Odoo GitHub repository for Mail Plugins.

> Open the ZIP file on the computer. Then, go to
> :menuselection:`mail-client-extensions-master --> gmail --> src --> views`, and open the
> :guilabel:`login` TS file using any text editor software, such as Notepad (Windows), TextEdit
> (Mac), or Visual Studio Code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open the ZIP file on the computer. Then, go to :menuselection:`mail-client-extensions-master
--> gmail --> src --> views`, and open the :guilabel:`login` TS file using any text editor software,
such as Notepad (Windows), TextEdit (Mac), or Visual Studio Code.
```

Author: This works, thanks.

Gmail Plugin
============

The *Gmail Plugin* integrates an Odoo database with a Gmail inbox, so users can keep track of all
their work between Gmail and Odoo, without losing any information.

Odoo Online users
=================

For databases hosted on Odoo Online (or Odoo.sh), follow the steps below to configure the Gmail 
Plugin.

Install the Gmail Plugin
------------------------

First, log in to the Gmail account that the user wishes to connect to Odoo.

From the Gmail inbox, click the plus sign icon on the right side panel to get add-ons. If the side
panel is not visible, click on the arrow icon at the bottom right corner of the inbox to reveal it.

> .. image:: gmail/gmail-side-panel.png

Reviewer 2: This image is too big.

- Capture screenshot in HD (browser at ~1280x600px with ~120% zoom)
- Resize file to tablet/low-res desktop breakpoint b/w 768 and ~1024px (lowest you can go without having to squint at the content).
- Compress file using `pngquant` 
- Replace file locally using `git rm` and `git add`

configure the Gmail Plugin.

.. note::
   As part of their security guidelines, Google requires add-on creators to provide a list of URLs
   that can be used in actions and redirections launched by the add-on. This protects users by
   ensuring, for example, that no add-on redirects users toward a malicious website. (Read more on
   `Google Apps Script <https://developers.google.com/apps-script/manifest/allowlist-url>`_.)
   
   Since Odoo can only list the `odoo.com` domain and not every on-premise customer’s unique server
   domain, on-premise customers cannot install the Gmail Plugin from the Google Workspace
   Marketplace.

Install the Gmail Plugin
------------------------

First, access the `GitHub repository <https://github.com/odoo/mail-client-extensions>`_ for the
Odoo Mail Plugins. Next, click on the green :guilabel:`Code` button. Then, click
:guilabel:`Download ZIP` to download the Mail Plugin files onto the user's computer.

.. image:: gmail/gh-download-zip.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Download the ZIP file from the Odoo GitHub repository for Mail Plugins.

Open the ZIP file on the computer. Then, go to :menuselection:`mail-client-extensions-master -->

> gmail --> src --> views`, and open the :guilabel:`login` TS file using any text editor software,

Reviewer 2: Use `:file:` tag here:
```suggestion
gmail --> src --> views`, and open the :file:`login.ts` file using any text editor software,
```

such as Notepad (Windows), TextEdit (Mac), or Visual Studio Code.

> Delete the following three lines of text from the :guilabel:`login` TS file:

Reviewer 2: Use `:file:` tag here:
```suggestion
Delete the following three lines of text from the :file:`login.ts` file:
```

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: Remove `python` and the CI error will resolve (this isn't actually python per se as it's in a `.ts` file not a `.py` file).
```suggestion
.. code-block::
```
